DAY 1 FEB 9th / 2016

Introduction
————————————————————————————

Prof S. Shivendu

Research: pricing of digital goods.  Contracts, how to design them to address special issues in IT.  Security research.

SLA	in IT: because of the amount of revenue involved.  Contracts: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-level_agreement

It is difficult to judge software on quality, its observable but difficult to define concretely. UX for example.
———————————————————————————— 


Information Systems Development
———————————————————————————— 

7 steps of system development (not relevant to today business world)
Identifying problems, opportunities objectives
Determine human info reqs
analyze system needs
design recommended system
develop and document software
testing and maintaining the system
implementing and evaluating the system.

IT != IS
IS != Software

IS any organization of information that has purpose.


Why do most projects take longer to develop.
Bad requirements.
Underestimating the time it takes.


4 dimensions of Software Systems
People
Variations in productivity
Process
quality issues
customer orientation
Product
Technology

Classic Mistakes
— People
Undermined motivation
Weak personnel
Uncontrolled problem employees
Heroics
Add people to late to a project (knowledge transfer) (if you do bring someone in, bring in someone they want.)
Noisy, crowded offices
Friction between developers and customers
Unrealistic expectations
Lack of effective project sponsorship
Lack of stakeholder buy-in
Lack of user input
Politics places over substance
Wishful thinking

Process
overly optimistic schedules
insufficient risk management
contractor failure
insufficient planning
abandonment of planning under pressure
wasted time during the fuzzy front end
shortchanged upstream activities.
inadequate design
shortchanged quality assurance
insufficient management controls
premature or overly request convergence
omitting necessary task from estimates
planning to catch up later
code-like-hell programming
Product
reqs gold-plating (say it somehow meets the reqs)
feature creep
developer gold-plating
push me, pull me negotiating
research-oriented development
Technology
silver-bullet syndrome
overestimated savings from new tools or methods
switching tools in the middle of a project
Dilbert (mandating new language standards in the middle of a project)
Lack of automated source-code control.

How to make developers perform:
Ask them if they can accomplish the deadline: Let them buy in.

Research Areas
Human Interaction
Computational Emergence
Design
Computation Engineering
Adaptive System Infrastructure
Adaptable and Predictable System Quality
Policy, Acquisition, and Management

Software system development
Business Problem Domain
knowledge of the application domain
more information systems fail due to a lack of domain understanding than poor technology
Systems solution domain knowledge

Software system development
Systems are never started from scratch.
Systems are not always 100% automated.

It is a system interacting with software information humans and machines.

Modular design and abstractions help to handle complexity.
Natural language is ambiguous.

interfaces (Black Box)
internal design (clear box)

modules measurements of goodness:
loose coupling
cohesion

Encapsulation - SOA- Software orientated architecture.
