When a mean is significantly greater than the median it is skewed right.
Skewed right: a distribution with extreme observations to the right.

Data summaries fail to inform us about other important characteristics such as:
- Variability
- Skew
- # of modes
- Unusual data points

From histograms we can see the skewing of th data
Summary statistics could never show us if a mode has tails on each size

Historgrams are used to identify:
- Shape of a distribution
- Variability
- Number of Models

Bi-modal data analysis is fundamentaly different than single mode data.

Single variables let us make assesments of 
- shape 
- typical values
- skew
- range

Two or more variables help us to make predictions

Positive relationship.  As one value goes up so do the others.

Scatterplots help to analyze relationships between variables.
Scatter plot should be used with a correlation table.

Scatter plot matrix lts us look at all relationships of the data in a single view
Discrete variables: bedroom for example

If variables are continuous then scatter plot is good.  Its harder to find predictions with discrete variables
in scatter plots, and tables are more appropriate.

XY condition plot or trellis graph.  Shows seperate panels for each value in 
a category.

----------------------

Seperating predictable trend from unpredictable variation.
Seperat signal from noise
Confidence interval estimation.
Hypothesis testing

9 out of 300 is a relatively large sample size.
Election polls usually only poll 1000 people.

Decisions can be arrived at with certain confidence intervals.

Central Limit Theorum.  To reduce the error of a decision the probablitily of a wrong decision needs to be calculated
47% probability is large
p-Value measure the probability of a claim or hyposthesis
If the p-value is under 5% the hyposthesis is considered implausible.

Confidence intervals
Range of numbers is the range of plausible values that could have the truth.
confidence intervals tell us how confident we are in this range.
All numbers in the confidence interval have the same probability to be the truth.

The government usually assess the tax burden on the lower side of the interval for large consumer companies.


