Data warehouse is a "subject oriented, integrated, non-volatile, time varient collection of data in support of managements decisions"
A copy of transactional data, specifically structured for query and analysis.


Integreated: data from a variety of places
Almost always have a temporal direction

Operational databases vs Data Warehouses:

Operations databases:
processes are on small subsets of data
administered as a unit
transaction orientd and speed matters
designed to control redundancy
avoid modification anomolies
highly available and stable
Support day to day operations.

Data warehouses:
analysis or read-only.
for exploratory data analysis.
relaxed performance constraints.
few a priori requirements.
seperately administrered units.
redundancy is a fact of life.
flexible structure.
supports analysis and decision making.

Kimbal designs dimentional modeling as:
"a logical design technique for structuring data so that it is intuitive to business users and delivers fast query performance"
Dimentional modeling is widely accepted as the preferred approach for DW/BI presentation
design that inevitably happens when understandability and performance are the highest goals

The fundamental idea is that data can be structured as a data cube.
Where the cells of the cube contain mesaured values, the edges of the cube contain natural dimensions.
of course we use more than three dimensions.

dimentional model or star join schema:
seperates facts from dimensions
The center of the star is the central fact table, where the surrounding tables have dimensions for filtering the data

most fact tables will have a calender date dimension.

Fact tables typically store important numeric/business measurments and  the intersection of the radiating dimensions
The best most useful facts are numeric, continuously valued, and additive.
a huge number of rows need be compressed for a useful summary
Fact tables may be sparse or sampled

The idea that a measurement event in the physical world has a one-to-one relationship to a single row in the corresponding fact table is the bedrock principal for dimensional modeling.

Dimension tables store discrete categories that identify the granularity of the mesaurements of the fact table
They have many attributes for a rich query environment
The best attrs are textual, discrete, and used as the source constraints and row headers in the users answer set.
Dimensions are constant (or at least slowly changing)

If the perspective seems too simple... Good! It has a chance of remaining simple

Data warehousings goal is to make enterprise business data available for analysis
The data is consistent
it includes the data and the tools for exploring the data, as well as machine-learning algorithms for data mining.
The warehouse is where we publish data
The quality of the data is the driver for business re-engineering


Kimbals bus architecture is good for tracking additional dimesnions.  Starts snowflakes, constellations etc.
snowflakes do not have the ease of understanding and performance of flattened demnormalized dimension table.
Outrigger dimesnios should be used sparingly.  Usually each circumstance should be represented by two seperate foreign keys instead.

Shared or conformed dimensions provide data warehousing standards that are usefulacross many start schemas.  Constellations.
The deisng and maintenece of shared dimensions is a good investment
Interfaces an meta dta are more consistent
Data interpretations and cross-references are enhanced.
